---
layout: post
title: "what the h[a/e]ck have you done all the time?"
date: 2012-02-22 23:47
comments: true
categories:
- news
---
> My ambition is handicapped by my laziness.

Okay, there are a couple of reasons why I didn't really put the old S9Y-blog at [gedankenstuecke.de](http://gedankenstuecke.de) to use during the last months. There were all those courses at university which required me to spend some time to actually learn the *contents* of the courses. Plus: I – and all the others involved with *openSNP* – invested much of the time at hand into this very same project. We launched the website just before the deadline for the *Mendeley/PLoS Binary Battle* ran out and the usual thing happened. Most of the bugfixing was done in the weeks following launch. Afterwards I gave two talks on *openSNP* and the future of genetic information together with Philipp. Both of which have been recorded, so you can [watch them here](http://opensnp.wordpress.com/2012/01/02/videos-and-slides-on-the-recent-talks/). Additionally I gave two invited talks about *openSNP* – one at an institute in Strasbourg and another one at an institute in Tübingen – and two more are just coming up. Sorry, to my knowledge there are no recordings of those.

Between all the talks I also {" took some time to finally implement some API-features "} into *openSNP*. Due to this you can now grab the genetic and phenotypic information using *JSON* and – if you are interested in using a standard which is a bit more rooted in bioinformatics – you can use the *Distributed Annotation System* (DAS). There is a short How-To on the *JSON*-stuff on [the *openSNP* blog](http://opensnp.wordpress.com/2012/01/18/some-progress-on-the-api-json-endpoints/) and I've done some videos which also include the DAS-stuff, the videos can [be found here](http://opensnp.wordpress.com/2012/02/20/videos-on-opensnp-das-support/). The DAS-integration is still in early alpha-testing so let me know if something breaks down. In order to get some expert help with implementing more DAS-features I will leave to visit a DAS workshop at the *European Bioinformatics Institute* in Cambridge on Sunday.

Just two days ago we also started the project to [give out free genotypings](http://opensnp.wordpress.com/2012/02/20/apply-now-for-a-free-genotyping/) with the money we've got from the *Wikimedia* here in Germany. The little funding we got should get us ~20 - 30 genotypings, depending on the shipping costs involved. And it looks like we will have no problem to get enough participants. Instead I really should try to get more funding, but I'm kind of lacking ideas whom to bug about this, so tips are appreciated. I'm still thinking about using *Kickstarter* to do some fundraising so people who aren't interested in genotyping and sharing their own data can help us out, but I don't know if anyone would be willing to do so. What are your opinions on this? Would you give some money to help others get genotyped? And: What rewards would you like to see if we would use Kickstarter for this?
